>> Erik Reinert: So
let's talk about distributed or
service-oriented architectures.
Now one of the reasons why I used this
GIF is because I've always felt like
services or distributed
services are really satellites.
They're these things that you throw up
into the cloud, you hope that they talk to
each other, you hope that they get
a signal and work together fine.
And you've got a bunch of these floating
in the sky somewhere working together.
However, distributed doesn't necessarily
just mean service-oriented, right?
Distributed can mean a lot of things.
I'm just going over the service-oriented
design because there's two types
of services that I wanna talk about.
Distributed alone as its
own conversation of,
how do you handle distributed workloads?
There's things like queues,
there's things like, again, event busses.
There's a lot of different approaches
to handling distributed architecture.
However, those aren't used as much as
just service-oriented or SOA approaches.
So that's why we're gonna be talking
about service-oriented today.
I also wanna note, monolith,
distributed, and serverless,
the things that we're talking about
are normally at almost every company or
have been worked on with most companies.
A lot of companies are still getting
comfortable with event based systems.
comfortable with more advanced approaches,
even like PubSub and stuff like that,
are still new in the industry and
a lot of places.
A lot of the forward leading companies
are in that because they need to.
But monoliths, distributed services, and
even serverless are really still like
the big beasts that everyone are talking
about when we talk about building
backend system architectures.
So let's get into it.
So we're gonna talk about two
different types of service-oriented
architectures for distribution.
The first is gonna be generic services and
the second is gonna be microservices.
And I'll go into that in a little
bit in just a second, but
let's do our definition first.
So generic services and or microservices
architecture is a method of developing
software systems that are loosely
coupled and independently deployable,
smaller services which run
have their own processes.
Now again, we've talked a lot about
architectures, how to define them,
how to understand them.
My hopes are at this point, you can
see why this can be valuable, right?
Compared to a monolith,
distributed services can make it so
that you change smaller
things more intricately and
more quicker without impacting
other parts of the system.
However, I do wanna make sure at least
in this course that you understand
the difference between generic
services and microservices.
Because a lot of people do not
design microservices correctly.
[LAUGH] It's something that most people
will say, yeah, we use microservices.
And I'm, okay, cool,
can you show me your architecture?
And I'm, no,
you're just using generic services.
That's not a microservice approach.
Companies, again like Google,
Amazon, Netflix.
These are companies who are separating
microservices into teams.
So one team is handling one small
service that has its all own isolation,
its own database, its own running service,
its own replicas, its own processes.
That is the difference between
a generic service and a micro service.
Let's talk about
the service-oriented overview.
This architecture allows for continuous
delivery and deployment of large,
complex applications.
It also enhances the organization's
capability to innovate and
reduces the time to market for
new features.
As I said before, when you've already got
a lot of infrastructure that you've built,
you've worked on, you've iterated over,
you've solved for
a lot of these problems, and
if you distributed it well, it will work.
Now let me ask you guys
a question in the situation of I
wanna have a way to add
new features quicker.
Which do you think is better using
a monolith or using distributed services?
Which do you think is actually would get
you services or changes out quicker?
>> Speaker 2: Distributed services?
>> Speaker 3: It depends
on the feature [LAUGH].
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah, it does,
it does, it definitely does.
And so that's something I want you
guys to take away from this is it
really depends on the scale, right?
And what already exists, right?
In a monolith, if you've already got
a lot of these things in the monolith,
then it could be just as easy to
add stuff to the monolith, right?
But if you have a large
scale of microservices and
you're already dealing with
things like authorization and
security or encryption and
things like that.
That means that in the future when you
wanna add just this one small component.
You've already solved a lot of these other
challenges in other locations you can
automatically again going back
to the bot example, right?
We know that the way we built the bot
engine, I can just easily plug in YouTube.
I can easily plug in Twitch,
I can easily plug in Discord.
That would actually be simpler than
me doing it in a monolith approach.
Because if I did it in a monolith
approach, I'd also have to consider, okay,
what about the YouTube connection?
What about the Discord connection?
What about the Twitch connection?
Are they all working together?
Is there one that's gonna get disconnected
while the other two are working, right?
So that's where it kinda
becomes circumstantial.
But there will be a point where you
will have enough of an architecture
underneath you to where you should
be able to add a small component and
then it works with the rest of
the components pretty freely.